extends music
tags music
date 2026-04-30
render music
# Getting Killed
review_score 8
Getting Killed by Geese is a good album. Going into listening I noted that it was described as "abrasive textures" which I didn't think I would like, but the album covers ground that I think matches my vibe well overall. Certainly some songs like Trinidad fit with Geese's rock heritage and influence, but there are also songs like Au Pays du Cocaine that mix wonderful melodies with almost haunting vocals from Cameron Winter. It is, also, if you can't tell, my favorite from the album.
There are two things that primarily hold me back from really liking this album. First, some of the songs that focus more on the "abrasive textures" don't generally fit with my musical taste. The second thing that matters more for me is that a fair few songs in this album had different left and right channels. 
I don't different left and right channels in my music. It deeply messes with my mind and annoys me that both sides aren't mixed the same. While I can be persuaded that in some songs it might have artistic merit where used intentionally, I don't think this album ever really manages to make it clear what the point would be. By not making it prominant enough, I can't tell what the positive merits would be, but I am still annoyed by the way the different channels messes with my brain. 
Overall a good 8 out of 10 because I still enjoyed the album, even if this wouldn't good in a favorites list. Au Pays du Cocaine did make it into my main playlist though. 
end render