extends music_template
tags music
date 2026-05-31
review_score 6
render music
# Yeh Jawaani Hai Deewani
Yeh Jawaani Hai Deewani is the music backing to a Indian movie by Pritam Chakraborty and Amitabh Bhattacharya. The songs are almost all in Hindi, with only a very few select words in English. I did not check what the English translations meant as I don't really care. Realistically speaking, I won't ever learn Hindi, so checking once doesn't really have a point since I don't be able to associate any of the lyrics with English translations when listening. 
There is also, of course, an associated movie. I didn't watch it and I have no plans to watch it. The movie seems reasonable enough, but I can't really comment on it until I watch it (which probably won't happen). Thus, this is all to say that I am judging it as a person who can't understand the language nor knows the movie for which it was created.
First thought, as far as I can tell, this seems very similar to other Bollywood songs (with one exception I will get to). Don't get me wrong, each song is clearly different, but as far as "audio texture" wise, it does seem like it is very similar to what I know about other Bollywood songs. I expected this, but it is very interesting. 
I think I struggle with rating this very highly when I just flat out can't understand most of it. Unlike other KPop albums that I've reviewed in the past, those albums contained a song or two usually for international audiences that primarily know English (like me), but this had nothing, which makes sense in the context of being a Bollywood movie. 
But the natural consequences is that I have a hard time being moved by the vocals and can't really focus on the backing. It also wasn't designed for the backing to be the main focus, so even if I did focus on the backing, I don't think I would find it as compelling as something written stand alone. Dilliwaali Girlfriend is one song that uses more English, but it still isn't enough that I feel really like a compelling narrative/meaning is communicated. 
Dilliwaali Girlfriend is also really interesting in that I feel like it is more techno in style. It is high energy and has a synthesized feel to it that I think I haven't really heard from Bollywood music. That could fully well be my own ignorance, but it was a welcome change of pace in an album that was starting to sound all very similar. 
Overall, I gave this album an okay 6 out of 10. I don't really know if I ever really can give an international album that lacks a language I speak higher than this because it just is really hard to feel compelled by it. I added Dilliwaali Girlfriend to my study playlist.
end render