extends music
tags music
date 2026-05-13
render music
# Alligator Bites Never Heal
review_score 8
Alligator Bites Never Heal is a good album by Doechii, but connects to experiences that I cannot relate to. This one is weird. There is much to be said about what exactly the role of a critic is. Entire books can and have been written on the subject. 
Thankfully though, I don't really consider myself a critic. In some sense I critique works, but my words are, to me at least, more an expression of who I am in approaching an album than an attempt to objectively consider the album's value/quality as a work of art. The latter is the job of critics far more experienced than me.  Either way though, I feel I would be remiss if I didn't at least discuss the issue of how race plays into understanding music, given that is a very large part of how I understand this album. 
With all of that preface out of the way, I can't relate to many of the core elements of Alligator Bites Never Heal because there are elements of being a black person in the US that I don't have context for. Doechii impressively draws on personal experience to create lyrics with interesting ideas to me, but they never can develop further than ideas for me because I don't share the underpinnings of what those lyrics are based on.  While I'm sure Doechii's exact personal experiences will be different from other black people, likely in no small part to being a black woman,  other people that understand blackness in the US better would have much stronger cultural context for Doechii's songs. 
To be sure, on artistic merit alone, this album is impressive. Doechii is catchy and mixes diegetic audio creatively (although perhaps a tad over used from my perspective). The beat and rhythm flow in ways that make each song propel itself forward with exciting energy, but I constantly get distracted by the lyrics that while I literally understand, I don't actually understand. 
With all of the above said, it seems rough to give this album a rating. I like it in many ways, but I feel it sits in the uncanny valley of intelligible but not quite comprehensible. Songs that only have (or are majority) foreign languages I don't understand I often can only focus on the musical notes, but I keep wanting to process the words in Alligator Bites Never Heal. I think I still will end up giving it an 8 out of 10. No song made it to my main playlist though. 
end render