extends music
tags music
date 2026-06-02
render music
# Damn
review_score 8
Damn is another album by Kendrick Lamar that makes me feel very similar ways to <a href="2026-05-19">Mr. Morale & The Big Steppers</a>, but I find this one resonates with me a little more compared to Kendrick Lamar's newer work. 
I don't really think its worth rehashing too much of what I've said about the nature of my relationship with work like Kendrick Lamar's, but the long story short is that because of the fact that Kendrick Lamar draws so much from being black in the US, I can't understand or relate as well because I lack context and understand of that experience. 
But it is interesting that I don't exactly feel the same about Mr. Morale and Damn. Damn was published in 2017, while Mr. Morale was published in 2022. Kendrick Lamar became a father in 2019. Mr. Morale has a large component that centers on Kendrick being more reflective on his personal identity as a father, which is situated in the context of being black. This is all to say, for an album that I already struggle with connecting to, adding the element of reflecting on being a father makes it even harder for me to understand. I don't actually believe understanding is actually impossible, but it is certainly more difficult. 
Damn on the other hand doesn't have the elements of fatherhood. It draws much more themes from being black in the US, but also contains elements that (on the whole) more universal for the experiences of being in the US. Particularly for me at least, XXX. was a song that really exemplified this. It certainly doesn't leave the context of blackness, but talks more about general issues in the US. To be honest, being able to make more emotional connections made that my favorite of this album.
Overall, much like Mr. Morale, I gave this album an 8 out of 10. I liked it, but still struggled with connecting with it. I did add XXX. to my main playlist, but you already know why I did that. 
end render