extends music_template
tags music
date 2026-05-07
review_score 8
render music
# Oyster
I missed a post yesterday. Its disappointing that after only 15 days I failed and forgot to write a review one day. Either way, no point in beating myself up with it. I'll just keep a running count and label it. I probably won't add this to every review because that would get boring quick. 
Missed days: 1. 
Oyster is an album by indie artist Chloe Moriondo. Do you count as indie if you release songs with a label owned by Warner Music Group? That seems to go against the spirit at least of what it means to be independent. I guess you might be contractually independent,
Either way, Oyster is a very quiet album. I usually listen to these albums with over the ear headphones (although audiophiles would probably castigate me for my audio set up), which means I think I don't actually think these songs are much quieter than the other songs that I've listened to. Obviously different songs are at different volumes, but this album creates a sense that the volume I am hearing is from a person almost whispering into my ear, rather than from someone shouting at me. Its closeness rather than raw volume in the sounds. It has that kind of audio texture that whispering tends to have. 
The album doesn't all contain whispering songs. Some songs like hate it are closer to traditional pop in how the vocals sound to me. 
Either way, this album was enjoyable. I think the writing is compelling enough and songs are catchy when they need to be. This is an interesting moment of reflection for me because my end conclusion with this album is that it feels good but not great in my book, but I'm not quite sure why. I wonder if I look back in a year and revisit this album I'll have a more definite reason for what I'm feeling about it. The best I've been able to come up with is that the "pop" parts of this album feel a little too same-y with other pop songs, but I'm not super satisfied with that. I definitely think there are portions that are different and have their own stylistic merit. Overall a solid 8 out of 10. My favorite was catch and was added to my main playlist. 
end render