extends music
tags music
date 2026-04-29
render music
# XOXO
review_score 9
XOXO by JEON SOMI is an interesting mix of Korean and English. I understand about 37-43% of all the words over the course of the album, which reflects, in my mind, Jeon Somi's South Korean and Canadian heritage. Of course, I knew that going into listening to the album there would be a high Korean content, but the quantity of English was more surprising than it probably ought to have been. 
What further surprised me is Anymore, which is entirely English (unless some Korean slipped by me, which is possible since I don't understand any of the language). I assumed that all the songs would be Korean first and with some English added for effect, but turns out, not!
I notice often in Chinese songs that have English words that the use of English can feel rough and jarring. Bear in mind that I do understand Chinese fluently, so the context is different, but I think the integration of English in with Korean in XOXO feels like it was done with care and nuance. 
The album also covers an impressive gamut of what I would describe as "audio textures" because I lack technical knowledge of the right term. To elucidate what I am trying to say, I tend to not like songs from Imagine Dragons because any Imagine Dragons song feels very similar to any other. It isn't that any given song is bad per se, but that listening to a series of Imagine Dragons songs in succession will quickly feel like you've listened to the same song several times. For me then, XOXO manages to avoid this kind of "audio satiation" with songs that have different, well, textures. 
This certainly made it to my main playlist with Anymore and What You Waiting For were stand out songs to me. An excellent 9 out of 10 for me. 
This one was written pretty late. I wonder if I'll be able to pull it off in exam season. My sleep schedule good enough, and I feel chill enough about the tests that I'll probably pull through. It would be sad to end this series so soon. 
end render