extends music_template
tags music
date 2026-05-21
review_score 7.5
render music
# Back on Top
Back on Top by The Front Bottoms isn't what I expected, but I like it. One thing that I do before listening to any of the albums is that I take a look at the genre and then start listening to album. 
The genre that Back on Top was put in was "Alternate Rock." To be honest, the history of music and how different genre's developed is something that I am extremely underinformed on. I don't really know what influence what in away that I think leaves me missing some of the subtleties of the albums I listen to. 
I came in expecting something closer to the style of <a href="/4-30-2026">Geese</a> and the abrasive texture that many of their songs have, but Back on Top definitely is closer to pop. I think the secondary genre of "Indie Pop" should have tipped me off to this, but we live and learn.
On the whole this is an enjoyable album. Its upbeat and carries itself with catchy lyrics. Substantively, I think its a little less compelling for me than something like <a href="4-29-2026">XOXO</a> which I find gets me better. I also think one thing holding this album back for me is that the lyric feel closer to spoken word poetry than singing. I'm not sure if I'm describing this exactly correctly, but something about it makes it feel like someone speaking at me than singing to me. I end up thinking that this is in the good but not quite great region for me, which lands it at 7.5 out of 10. I added Motorcycle to my main playlist.
end render