extends music
tags music
date 2026-05-15
render music
# Earfood
review_score 8.5
Earfood is a jazz album by Roy Hargrove, one of the most acclaimed jazz musicians of all time. Coincidentally, (and this really is a coincident as I picked this album for today before learning this), I got the opportunity to listen to some jazz music live in person today.
Something about live music definitely feels different. From an objective stand point I couldn't say that I can hear differences in audio quality, but being there and seeing musicians perform definitely changes the character of the music in some way. I think it adds an additional layer of communication that makes the general vibe clearer through the additional information visuals can provide.
It also definitely feels easier to judge online, which like duh, everyone knows this, but it was a helpful reminder. I certaintly felt different about judging the music in person as I could see the people working hard to produce the songs I was listening to in a way that the magic of internet music can often hide. 
For me at least, I don't think Earfood is the type of album to have a song that makes it into my main playlist. Its definitely good songs and has a nice relaxed jazz feeling to it, but I think that feeling is better served in more specialized contexts for when you want relaxing jazz. To that point, I did put the songs I'm Not So Sure, Divine, Speak Low, and Strasbourg / St. Denis into my study playlist. 
It works very well as comforting background music while you are trying to lock in on a specific task. 
Unfortunately, the mix that I am listening to has different audio channels for left and right which annoys me enough that some of the excellent trumpet work by Roy Hargrove can feel a little grating on my right ear specifically. 
Overall, I would say this is a pretty good 8.5 out of 10. As a whole album I don't think I would listen to it much more, but the individual songs are a welcome addition to my study playlist. 
end render